The nazis failed to implement their original economic program. They did not nationalize the monopolies; on the contrary, every effort was made to encourage concentration and cartelization; they did not confiscate war profits or unearned income; they did not undertake land reform, and they did not take over uncultivated lands and transform them into peasant cooperatives. Populist and socialist promises were forgotten when they came to power. The nazi party's socialist leaders, many of whom had taken these promises seriously, were massacred in 1934. Nazi economic policy consisted of a series of improvisations to meet the political objectives of rearmament and war. There is no doubt that the economy was subordinated not only to political and ideological exigencies, but also to the necessity of planning or waging war. From the very start, controls were put on foreign exchange. Special efforts were made to promote investment and direct it to key areas of economic activity; to secure raw materials and, when it became necessary, to produce them at home (as, for instance, with synthetic gas and rubber). In general, the emphasis was put on reducing imports and promoting self-sufficiency. Priorities were established, wages controlled, and labor scarcities met through the importation of foreign, often slave labor, especially in the war period. However, cartelization proceeded through the amalgamation of firms or the takeover of smaller ones, and profits remained secure, even during the war. Property, both individual and corporate, was respected. Political imperatives prevailed. But the economy was not absorbed by the state; it was not nationalized. It became subordinate to the state and the party, a subordination that most other countries had experienced in time of war. There was nothing distinct about the nazi economy, it produced no new blueprint for production, trade, growth, or consumption. It made no effort to establish a new framework for labor-capital relations, other than to disband all trade unions.