When you first woke up this morning, as in every single moment of your life, you were actively taking in an enormous amount of information through your senses. If it was still dark when you first opened your eyes, you may have walked to the bathroom in pitch darkness, making your way easily even though you couldn't see a thing, simply from knowing how your body was moving through familiar space. Or, turning on the light, you may have looked over at your clock. Quite possibly, you might have been able to tell what time it was by the music from your radio alarm or by the sounds of activity outside your bedroom door. When your bare feet hit the floor, you may have felt the comfortable plush of thick carpeting, or the icy cold shock of stone tile. You may have awakened to the seductive aroma of freshly brewed coffee or sizzling bacon. Before going down to breakfast, you probably brushed your teeth with your favorite flavor of toothpaste. The preceding familiar morning experiences barely begin to scratch the richly textured surface of the vital role our senses play in our lives. From birth to death our senses are constantly bombarded by one stimulus after another, bringing us information and presenting us with decisions, first on how we'll perceive these stimuli and then on how we'll behave in response. In this chapter we'll look at the way we take in sensory information, from the basic operation of the sensory organs to the complex ways in which experience shapes our perceptions. Before we go on, let's define some terms. A stimulus is any form of energy to which we can respond (such as light waves, sound waves, and pressure on the skin), a sense is a particular physiological pathway for responding to a specific kind of energy, sensation is the feeling we have in response to information that comes in through our sensory organs, and perception is the way our brain organizes these feelings to make sense out of them, that is, the recognition of objects that comes from a combination of sensations and the memory of previous sensory experiences.