There are charges that young people who are recruited to such groups as Sun Myung Moon's unification church, hare krishna, or the children of God have undergone a total change of personality. They have rejected their families and their families' values, cut off ties with former friends, given up cherished career patterns and hobbies. They are said to show evidence of psychosis, of schizophrenia, of loss of creativity. They are described as exhibiting robot-like behavior or having a typical glassy-eyed "thousand-mile stare." They no longer engage in rational discussion, it is said, but keep using the jargon and advancing the ideology of the group.... It is assumed that this behavior is the product of a deliberate, sinister, and highly sophisticated plot to take over the minds and souls of young people and turn them into "robots." This is done, supposedly, through forced isolation, deprivation of food, sleep, and other essentials, psychological persuasion of the most coercive kind, and other forcible measures which sometimes assume mythological proportions in the conversation of parents and former members who have gone through the deprogramming which is the reversal of that process. All evidence points to the fact that the deprogramming cause has become at least as much a social movement as the groups it seeks to oppose. One obvious question to ask is whether these young converts are simply that, converts, to a religious group which is labeled deviant by the society, or at least by that portion of the society from which they have come. There is little doubt that most of the groups originally accused of brainwashing fall into the deviant category, though there is also evidence that the charges are spreading to less deviant ones. For example, a number of conservative Christian groups have been so challenged, and similar charges were raised by parents of several students at the university of Kansas who converted to Roman catholicism and entered a monastic order in France after a humanities course about such orders in medieval society.